# Non-invasive-Glucometer
Identifying the level of glucose in the blood using breath biomarkers Diabetes is a group of metabolic disorders characterized by a high blood sugar level over a prolonged period of time. Diabetes Mellitus is the 7th leading cause of death globally. As of 2019, an estimated 463 million people had diabetes worldwide (8.8% of the adult population), In 2019, diabetes resulted in approximately 4.2 million deaths. Diabetes at least doubles a person's risk of early death. Hence, we propose a solution for detection of diabetes using breath analyzer. 
A multi-sensor arrays with Nano-structured semi-conductor metal is used to examine the concentration of VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) in exhaled breath. Pattern recognition methods to build characteristic response profiles for the VOCs related to specific diseases in exhaled breath. We hypothesize diabetes can be detected with their relevant exhaled breath based Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)bio-marker using multi-sensor arrays with Nano-structured semi-conductor metal oxides. A breath-based sensing system to detect exhaled Acetone & Isopropanol, the biomarker will be helpful to predict the diabetes. The person whose breath is to be analyzed for specific Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) is made to exhale near the sensor. The sensor being selective to a specific VOC responds by producing an electrical signal (voltage). This electrical voltage is given to the signal-conditioning circuit and fed to a micro-controller, which process the given signal and provides the concentration of acetone in ppm and in-turn diagnose diabetes. The components used in this system includes an OLED display, Arduino UNO, Gas sensor (Grove HCHO) Formalin, Jumper Wires, Acetone Solution. We use third party web and app APIs. Cloud is used to store and share data. However, developing a sensor in with a very high precision is bit difficult. Maintaining a constant equilibrium for the sensor is bit hard but can be overcome by designing a tight facial mask.
